# DATA ANALYTICS PORTIFOLIO

Sênior Data Analyst with a strong background in engineering, with **4 years of experience** connecting business to data. My expertise lies in **programming languages**, **advanced statistical analysis** and **data visualizations**. This combination, in addition to my **communication skills**, **analytical thinking** and **time management**, allows me to solve a wide range of challenges with total precision. Through my proficiency in several analytical tools, I have successfully developed projects that helped optimize the results of companies in the most diverse sectors, such as **civil construction**, **real-state**, **telecommunications** and **food industry**.

One of the greatest outcomes was achieving a **25% cost reduction** for a construction company by developing **metrics and indicator**s, mapping out waste of labor and materials. In another opportunity I assisted in the development of a **predictive models** for a real estate network, resulting in a **35% increase** in sales conversion rates and a **25% reduction** in the average time to sell or rent properties. In addition, by consolidating information from multiple sources into a single Dashboard, it was possible to **reduce in 40%** the average incident resolution time for **backlog activities** in a telecom company. One last achievement, was obtaining a **75% reduction** in data processing time by migrating the data transformation process directly to the cloud.

This portfolio presents over **twenty projects** in the **data analytics field** each designed to address real-world business challenges and create strategic value. The projects span a variety of objectives, from **statistical analysis** to uncover patterns and trends, to building robust **ETL/ELT pipelines** that streamline data processing. Comprehensive **data transformations** were performed to ensure high-quality and well-integrated datasets, while **interactive dashboards** were developed to support data-driven decision-making effectively. Predictive models powered by **machine learning algorithms** met specific business needs, delivering actionable forecasts and insights. By leveraging advanced technologies like Python, R, SQL, Databricks, Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, and Power BI, these solutions were implemented with a strong focus on efficiency, scalability, and impact. This portfolio highlights a commitment to delivering customized, **results-oriented solutions** that translate complex data into measurable business results.
